---
title: "5 Hour Rule, Surface & Deep Knowledge, Grid Movement"
tags: life, design
---

# 2020/05/01

## 5 Hour Rule

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IaODRYKFbrc

Bits Of Wisdom:

* Schedule time for deliberate learning.
* Schedule slack time into daily schedule for learning and quality improvement.
* Deliberate practice time (in contrast to learning from a goal.)
* Set learning goals separate from goals to get some work complete.
* Retrospectives.
* Ruminate - Retrospective and review through walking.
* Observe others (without an agenda outside of learning.)
* *Outside Of Learning*: Solve problems as they arise. Do no defer.

## Surface Knowledge vs Deep Knowledge

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aVb6-Rkz7W4 ~(59:00)

Surface knowledge is a new feature or widget.

Deep knowledge is timeless (e.g. design patterns, established standards).

## Grid Movement with Physics

I keep finding holes in the block pushing of Potty Time. Its gotten to the point where I don't want to spend anymore time on what I was sure was a simple thing. Instead, I'm looking into just linking in box2d into my application and using it to determine the cascade of moved/affected blocks.

The first thing I've noticed when looking into this is that the developer of box2d also has a box2d-lite. The lite version is very light but may actually suit my purposes without all the baggage of the full version. My only reluctance is that I want to know the performance is reasonable, even in my super simply case.

Setting up several fail gates here:

* First fail gate is going to be building box2d and box2d-lite as static libraries in Scons.
* Second fail gate is going to be setting up a number of tests to measure the performance of box2d and box2d-lite for my use cases.
* Third fail gate is going to be comparing the size of full box2d to box2d lite. There is a balance between performance and size in this case. If the performance difference between the two is very small, but full box2d adds a significant size, I'll likely choose box2d lite.

After picking the best implementation, the plan is to create bodies for each entity on the board. When the player moves, an impulse will be applies to the adjacent body and we'll simulate for a single step. The step time delta needs to be sufficiently large enough to determine if the effected bodies were actually able to move into an adjacent square. I can think of some weird edge cases where the naive approach will fail, but for the more simple use cases, this should suffice until the problem is better understood. The complete time step should occur within a single input Action and then all blocks detected as moved *enough* will be added to the output Action list.

### Conclusion

I don't think using Box2D to perform discrete grid movement was a good idea. **TODO: Discuss results.**

## New Grid Movement Ideas

Since Box2D was a bust, I'm starting to look refresh my idea of what is needed. So far I've been obsessed with trying to do a functional approach to the movement. The fact that Box2D isn't functional itself is kind of making me thing I just need to come up with an approach that is more stateful. 

The way the new algorithm works is that each grid position starting from the player and heading in the desired direction will be checked until an ActionResult(true) or ActionResult(false) is returned. A false return will prevent any of the actions from continuing. This is usually the result of an un-movable object in the chain or an invalid position in the chain. A true result means that we are clear to add the Action to the output action queue to be committed at the end of the frame.

* One improvement I'd like to add to ActionResult is a EAGAIN like return. In this use case, you'd basically return something like a GridMoveAction as an alternate, but instead of returning to the System, you continue processing the movement transaction.

After each of the positions are checked for validity and emptiness, there is a check for movability and then bump-ability. Entities that have no MoveableComponent are considered un-moveable. (Not sure if this should be inverted for efficiency later on.) If a position is not empty, and moveable, and bump-able, the BumpableComponent's bump lambda (i.e. std::function) member is called to allow the entity to decide its own fate. The primary use case for this bump-ability is to allow an entity to decide if it can be consumed depending on the entity doing the bumping. 

It would be nice to make the bump-ability a bit more generic, but its limited implementation serves my purpose for now.

In conclusion, I'm generally back to where I was with regards to the GDScript version of the model code, but now I have a fully functioning ECS in a proper object oriented language. Hopefully the return on investment will start to turn around now that I appear to be a bit more over the hump. 



## Grid Sliding Trick

Someone mentioned sliding based on off-center ray casts that indicate if we want to slide one direction or another OR if we want to push up against the object without sliding. Capsule shapes almost always solve this problem, but if you aren't using a physics engine, you likely aren't managing capsules.



