# 2020/05/06

## Action == Component Replacement

While studying for my Kotlin exam, I think I had an ah-ha moment about the ECS I've been working on. The action classes I've been developing have felt too complicated for my taste. It occurred to me that since components (the things actions mutate) are only data, actions should simply consider all components to be immutable. 

In summary, I plan to experiment with the idea that all IAction subclasses will merely replace entire components of an entity instead of mutating the component in place. There could be a performance hit with this design, but if there isn't, I think it could simplify the code and make it safer.

## Camtasia for Retrospectives

I don't like watching people code unless they're prepared to show something off or guide the audience through a staged experience. That aside, I feel like it may be worth exploring the idea of recording some programming sessions, if for no other reason, for retrospection. Firstly, when working in solitude, there is no sense of accountability for quality, time, ROI, etc. My theory is that if I think I am being watched, I may change my habits. It also gives me an opportunity to playback my behavior and gain the retrospective view that I've mentioned 4 times already.

The one catch here is that I would prefer to have goals established when developing videos of a coding session. Sometime I'll just wing something and see where I end up. These sessions are often broken up and incoherent. Therefore, for this exercise to be valuable, the sessions should be goal driven and have value in the end. I can't afford video storage.

... and who knows, if they turn out ok, maybe I could post them for others. We shall see.

## std::filesystem in GCC

I've been building PottyTime with C++17 ever since I started porting the game to c++. I just started using a C++17 feature and suddenly everything halted. What gives? Apparently, GNU provides support for a lot of C++17 features, but they're all squirreled away in an experimental namespace and folder. Therefore, when using GNU 7.x.y, you need to load it like this:

```
#if (__GNUC__ <= 7) || defined(__clang__)
    #include <experimental/filesystem>
    namespace filesystem = std::experimental::filesystem;
#else
    #include <filesystem>
    namespace filesystem = std::filesystem;
#endif
```

Then you can do something like query the current path with this:

```
std::wcout << "Current path is " << filesystem::current_path() << "\r\n";
```

One last bit you can't do without is a special library to add to your linker arguments (`stdc++fs`):

```
g++ -o consoletest build/consoletest.o -lstdc++fs
```

Clang recommends:

```
$ clang++ -std=c++14 -stdlib=libc++ test.cpp -lc++experimental
```

