---
title: "Case Styles, Apple Keyboard in Windows 10, Diet for Programmers, Organizing Digital Assets"
tags: style life drivers assets
---

# 2020/05/03

## Case Styles

Reading through Google news, I came across a term I never heard before that really stuck with me. "kebab-case". This is often what I use when naming files that are composed up multiple words. Others were suggesting that this is the best convention for git branch names as well. To recap, here is a list of the different case types:

* [camelCase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camel_case) - Commonly used as Instance names in OO languages.
* PascalCase - Commonly used as Class names in OO languages.
* [snake_case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_case) - Common convention for K&R C.
* kebab-case - Good for filenames, git branches
* [StUDlyCAps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Studly_caps) - Good for trolling and texting while driving.

Of course there is a Wikipedia article on the subject: [Naming Convention (Programming)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naming_convention_(programming))

There is also a more general linguistic article on [Letter Case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letter_case). In this article they include things such as:

* Sentence case - "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog"
* Title case - "The Quick Brown Fox Jumps over the Lazy Dog" 
* Start case - "The Quick Brown Fox Jumps Over The Lazy Dog"
* All caps - "THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPS OVER THE LAZY DOG"
* Small caps - *All caps with a font face size smaller than the normal font face size.*
* Lower case - "the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog"

There are more and each with their subtle differences and rules.

## Apple Keyboard in Windows 10

I decided I wanted the ability to pause, play, volume up, volume down from my Apple keyboard. Apparently the bootcamp method of doing this is really complicated.

First you download the bootcamp driver ZIP file from [Apple Support Downloads](https://support.apple.com/en_US/downloads). Its over 500MB download, but the actual keyboard drivers around less than 20MB.

Instead of extracting everything, you only need to extract the bootcamp.msi and the keyboard driver. And then with the directory those files were extracted into as the working directory, input the following command into a command prompt (opened as an Administrator):

```
msiexec /i BootCamp.msi
```

From here you may need to accept a EULA, click next, and then finish.

**Well that didn't work.**

No only were the instructions for mac hardware with a mac keyboard, there doesn't appear to be much conversation about enabling Apple keyboard functionality on a Non-mac hardware. Taking a different approach, I opted to try to setup something with [AutoHotkey](https://www.autohotkey.com/).

My family often requests my attention when listening to a video or music, the volume and pause/play are the single most important thing I need mapped. Looking at the apple keyboard, there is F16-F19 that I have a feeling are completely unused. Therefore I mapped them:

* F16 - Volume Down
* F17 - Volume Up
* F18 - Volume Mute
* F19 - Media Play/Pause

The idea behind F19 is that button will be the most in demand, and since F19 is in the most upper right corner, it'll be the easiest to locate quickly.

Here is the Autohotkeys script:

```
f16::Send {Volume_Down}
return

f17::Send {Volume_Up}
return

f18::Send {Volume_Mute}
return

f19::Send {Media_Play_Pause}
return
```

Super simple, super useful. **And it works.**

One last note ... apparently there are keyboard that have function keys up to F24?

## Diet for Programmers

As I sit here eating one of my favorite dishes, *Shit On Shingles*, I googled: "low calorie brain food for programmers". found Jason Baciulis's article on [Food for Programmers](https://jasonbaciulis.com/food-for-programmers/). He focuses on hydration, fish oil (i.e. omega-3, omega-6), and GI index of carbs. He also mentioned that vitamin and mineral supplements are a nice way to cheat not being a nutrition expert. The most interesting thing in the article, for me, was the bit on the carb [GI chart](http://www.health.harvard.edu/diseases-and-conditions/glycemic_index_and_glycemic_load_for_100_foods). The general goal is never go above 70. But obviously, lower is better for a more sustainable glucose feed into the bloodstream.

Things on this list that I would tolerate:

* Vegetable soup (48 ± 5)
* Sweet potato (63 ± 6)
* All fruit - *not watermelon*
* Porridge, rolled oats (55 ± 2) - *all other cereals seem bad*
* Barley (28 ± 2)
* Corn tortilla (46 ± 4)
* Spaghetti (48 ± 5)
* Rice noodles (53 ± 7)

## Organizing Digital Assets

One of my largest challenges that I keep deferring is a set of conventions and tools for organizing digital assets. I have thousands and thousands of digital assets that I've either purchased or obtained via open license models. Organizing these info folders have become nearly a complete waste of time. Tagging always seemed like a good idea, but I could never find a simple to use consumer application that could handle all of my assets. 

I recently ran across an article (via the Typora github issue database of all places) that goes over the philosophy and best practices for tagging and why it is superior to folders. It also goes into the fact that a good balance between folders and tagging is more practical and methods to go about using them.

[How To Use Tags And Labels](https://zapier.com/blog/how-to-use-tags-and-labels/)

In addition to tagging files, they also suggest tagging email, and notes. I personally have found that using frontmatter in markdown is my way to attach tags to my 'notes'. [TagSpaces](https://www.tagspaces.org/) is the application that they suggest looking into for tagging things that aren't inherently supported by the OS. Personally, I want to see a solution that allows me to export/move my tagging from platform to platform. (Ideally something that matches a digest hash to a set of tags.)

TagSpaces does not digest the content. I suppose this is because they anticipate things to be updated that are already tagged. That said, because the tagging format is in json, there is no reason I couldn't sidecar their sidecar and add on a digest of the pointed to content. There could be a script that grabs all the tagged content, adds a digest and then provides a duplication detection to save space or merge tags. *Lots of possibilities for new work here.*

All in all, I like what TagSpaces is trying to do and I may take a stab at actually using it in a few weeks. I still need to dig myself out of this C++ hole I got myself into.

## Cleaning Up Email

Finally got around to cleaning up my CrazyChenz gmail account again. The last time I did this was in December. The thing I never got around to doing was figuring out a way to monitor it and my standard personal email account from a single location. I had hoped that the Gmail phone app would allow me to do this like the Apple iPhone mail app does, but it didn't seem obvious to me if it can. Today I discovered that you can have all your gmail forwarded (I knew that already) and then automatically have the receiving email account reply as if it was from the email it was sent to. This is basically all I need. Combining this with label filters, I should be able to now manage all of my accounts from my single personal account. 



