---
title: "Integrating Model with Godot"
tags: c++, godot
---

# 2020/05/02

## Integrating PottyModelPlay with Godot

Reviewing the GDNative process for integrating external libraries with Godot. This process involves:

* Building a docker container for the toolchain.
* Building a static library for the Godot bindings.
* Building an adapter class for the Model library.
* Linking the adapter and static library bindings into a DLL.
* Integrating the DLL into the target Godot project.
* Integrating the GDNative script into the Godot project.

Simple, no?

### Docker Image

Building a docker container is already done-ish. Moved the updated Dockerfile to PottyModel. To build, simple run the following command:

```
pushd docker/godot-builder ; ./build.sh ; popd
```

### Godot C++ Bindings Library

Building godot-cpp was pretty straight forward from last time:

```
pushd PottyModel/godot-cpp ; ./build.sh ; popd
```

A no-op build of this takes 2m 16s. Going to avoid invoking that SConstruct on each build.

### Model Adapter Class

```
class PottyModel : public IPottyModel, public godot::Node {
    GODOT_CLASS(PottyModel, godot::Node);

    GodotModelEngine engine;
    double time_passed = 0;

public:
    PottyModel() : engine(*this) { }

    void _process(float delta) {
        time_passed += (double)delta; // * speed;
        engine.update((double)delta);
    }

    void player_move(godot::Vector2 vec) {
        //Godot::print("Player moved ");
        engine.player_move(Vector2(vec.x, vec.y));
    }

    void on_updated()
    {
        emit_signal("updated");
    }

    static void _register_methods() {
        godot::register_method("_process", &PottyModel::_process);
        godot::register_method("player_move", &PottyModel::player_move);
        godot::register_method("method", &PottyModel::method);

        godot::register_signal<PottyModel>("updated");
    }
};
```

Briefly:

* The `GodotModelEngine` is the main adapter class for the model.
* `PottyModel` has a base class of `IPottyModel`. This allows `GodotModelEngine` to callback to `PottyModel` for any events that we need.
* `PottyModel`'s default constructor passes a reference of itself to `GodotModelEngine` so the engine can notify `PottyModel` when its state has been updated.
* `_process()` is the function that gets called each frame in Godot. Therefore this is where we shove the engine's `update()` function invocation.
* `player_move()` is how Godot delivers the player's next move action request.
* `on_updated()` is the callback function that `GodotModelEngine` calls when it detects that actions have been committed (i.e. state changed.)

To build:

```
./buildw.sh
```

To build consoletest:

```
./buildl.sh consoletest
```

### Godot DLL Integration

The DLL is integrated into the Main.tscn scene via the Main/Model node in that scene's tree. The Main node is responsible for deterministically starting up the parts of the Godot system.

* The `HIDInput` is responsible for feeding human input to the controller.
* The `Controller` is responsible for feeding input into the model and orchestrating scene changes.
* The presentation and view nodes are responsible for presenting the state of the model.

All of the actual integration still needs to be accomplished.